This is Jockel Podcast number 57 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
If the outcome of the battle is favorable, one should not be satisfied with merely driving the enemy back.
This is a mistake made by inexperienced leaders who do not know how to take advantage of an opportunity.
And who like to hear the saying, be victorious, but do not press your victory too hard.
By not seizing the opportunity these people only cause themselves more trouble and place the ultimate results in doubt.
There can be no rest until the enemy is completely destroyed.
If they seek refuge behind fortifications, apply pressure by direct force or by preventing them from getting more supplies for men and horses until they are annihilated.
Or else agree to a treaty to our advantage.
One should not slacken after driving them back just as short distance.
No or after so much hard work and the dangers of war should one jeopardize the success of the whole campaign because of lack of persistence.
Good evening, echo. Good evening.
Now that's some direction there on how to pursue your enemy until they are completely destroyed.
And that direction comes from a book called Strategic On.
A book that's normally accredited to a guy by the name of Flavius, Mauritius, Tiberius Augustus, or as he is more commonly called Maurice.
And he was the emperor of Eastern Rome which is what we now call Byzantine in turn that wasn't even created until the 16th century.
But Maurice was a Roman emperor who started his journey as a soldier, a general who campaigned successfully against the Persians, the Avars, the Lombards, all over Persia and the Balkans and basically around the Mediterranean.
And his military experience served him well and this is the book that he's credited with.
And in it he details a variety of the mindset of the famous Roman Legion and what he had evolved to, especially as they adopted the strengths of their enemies.
And transitioned to using horses along with the use of lances and spears and bone arrow and swords. Again, all these things that you'd be using them all together.
Much as we do today what we call combined arms, which is when we attack from the sea and from the air, we land forces and we drop bombs and we use artillery, we use everything.
To lock people, get people in the combined arms dilemma, my favorite ideas.
And something that combined arms dilemma, when you're getting attacked with all these different positions, it's very hard to contend with and obviously they were able to do this as they adapt the different their enemies, they adapted what they used but then they used them together.
And so this book, Marys' book, Strategicon captures a lot of those ideas.
I know it's no surprise but a lot of these ideas remain pertinent today.
And I know it's no surprise but not only on the battlefield but also in business and in life.
And famous historian Charles O'Mon said about the Byzantine armies in courage, they were equal to their enemies in discipline, organization and armament, far superior.
And we go into the interduction in this book a little bit here because there's some good information to know about.
Here we go from the introduction of the book, they inherited the long tradition of Roman tactics and strategy with its emphasis on constant adaptation to the changing of war.
It was largely this remarkable ability to adapt to new situations and new peoples which guarantee the Byzantine military success.
Gotta be adaptable.
The Byzantines more over like the Romans took warfare very seriously.
The Byzantines war was an art to be practiced by professionals.
They possessed books on all aspects of warfare which were collected, copied over and over again and read.
The fact that officers in the Byzantine army had to be able to read and write by itself sets it apart from other medieval armies.
So obviously we do a lot of reading over here.
In this tradition right, this is what set them apart.
One of the things that set them apart was the fact that they read and they collected books on this subject.
Byzantine generals carefully studied the habits and tactics of their enemies.
Whereas Western knights found themselves at a loss when facing unknown foes.
The Western European considered himself a good warrior if he could ride and wield his weapons well and if he showed no fear.
Okay, so that's cool. You can ride and you can wield your weapons well and you show no fear.
For the Byzantine it was not superior strength or courage which won battles but after God's favor, thorough planning and intelligence.
Nothing could be left to chance. Marise twice reminds his readers that the Byzantine generals should never have to admit.
I did not expect that.
Now let's get, so that's just from the introduction kind of getting into the book and now we'll go to the actual book.
And I'm not going to go into the whole thing of who actually put these words on the paper again. It's credited to Marise.
But did someone else possibly ride it and he blessed it? Did he tell someone to ride it?
Did he have a ghost rider?
I don't know.
But he's the guy that's credited as having the brains behind it.
Start off here.
The training and drilling of the individual soldier.
He should be trained to shoot rapidly on foot, either in the Roman or the Persian manner.
Speed is important in shaking the arrow loose and discharging it with force.
This is essential and should be practiced while mounted.
In fact, even when the arrow is well-aimed, firing slowly as useless.
He should practice shooting rapidly on foot from a certain distance at a spear or some other target.
He should shoot also rapidly mounted on his horse at a run to the front, the rear, right and left.
He should practice leaping onto the horse.
On horseback at a run, he should fire one or two or his rap arrows rapidly and put the string, the strong bow in its case.
If it is wide enough or in the half case designed for this purpose, and then he should grab the spear which he has been carrying on his back.
With the strong bow in its case, he should hold the spear in his hand and quickly replace it on his back and grab the bow.
It is a good idea for soldiers to practice all this while mounted on the march in their own country.
For such exercises, do not interfere with marching and do not wear out the horses.
The reason I had to put this in here is because this is very much what we do in the SEAL teams.
You are shooting off hand, which means you are shooting with your weak hand.
We are reloading magazines with only one hand.
You have to put the weapon between your legs and pull the mags.
You are shooting all the stuff you are shooting while you are running.
You are shooting behind the vehicle.
You are shooting from outside of the vehicle.
You are doing all these things all these different ways all the time.
Because the better you get in all these strings, the better you are performing these strings.
You can apply this to any abysion I have talked about this before.
When you are dealing with business, you want to train your people to handle these weird situations.
Be a bad customer.
You know, pretend to be a bad person.
If you have leaders that you are training, be a horrible employee.
Be that person.
Put them to the test.
How are they going to handle employee that flies off the handle?
How are they going to play?
Handle employee that doesn't fly off the handle and get all verbal, but just goes cold.
What are you going to do now?
How are you going to handle this person?
Remember you guys are doing at the master.
You guys are doing that role playing thing real quick.
It was real quick too.
When I caught Lay off guard, you are going to do this.
Oh yeah, when you presented it a little.
But man, that was such a good point though because you go through one situation.
I don't have time for whatever.
Whatever your is going.
Then you are like, okay, and you get to put yourself through a potential situation.
And then at the end of it, you said, okay, look, we just went through that and we did it.
And maybe you there was problems maybe not.
But now you're familiar with it.
Kind of like the lights are on now.
You're not going live into a dark room, not knowing.
You're doing exactly what Marie said to do here, which is the most important thing is intelligence.
So it's combining what he's saying.
Right?
The more you prepare for that particular situation that Lay off and I did that little role play on.
He acted like he was a company commander that didn't have time for me.
Yeah.
And he took it to the next level and said, I don't have time for you because I got guys in combat right now.
I got troops in contact, which is that when you got troops in contact, that's where everyone's going to focus on that.
So I'm in there playing this young seal officer going, excuse me, captain, hey,
I'd like to talk to you about an operation.
We're going to do in your area of operation tonight.
Lay off says, hey, I'm busy.
I got troops in contact.
Leave me alone.
And I was kind of taking it back and I said, sir, you know what?
Can you just tell me where your ops officers and I'll go talk to him?
Yeah.
And that was it?
I overcame it because what else are you going to do?
But it took me a second ahead of think on my feet if that ever happened again.
I wouldn't have to think on my feet.
Right?
The answer.
And you went through like, if you were to do that in a real situation and you stumbled,
you didn't know what to do.
Yeah.
That's a web huge deal.
It's looking bad.
You're not giving any confidence.
You're saying, hey, I want to come into your area of operations and execute a mission tonight.
And I can't even put a sentence together.
Yeah.
That's why we heard sports case scenarios.
That's why you practice shooting on the horse off the horse, putting your bow away, pulling
it back out, throwing your spear, get that's what you do.
Yeah.
It's crazy how even going through once.
One time.
That much.
Well, when I work with companies, I'll do role play and I'll tell them watch what happens
in three times, three iterations.
They get that much better.
They'll go from totally snumbling and not being able to handle a bad employee to where the third
time they got it.
Yeah.
That's all it takes.
There's the same thing we put guys through in the in the sealed teams, we've got it through
really hard training scenarios.
And they would blow it and I'd kill all this is training.
I'd kill all the good guys, right?
Then I'll begin here with paintball, your dead, your dead.
Next time.
I say, okay, here's the mistake you may.
Let's look at what would you do?
Step back.
What would you do different?
Oh, man.
I didn't see that.
I got, you know, I got drawn to the situation.
I should, okay.
So let's do it again.
They're going to be 50% better the next time.
The next the time after that, we can't even catch them anymore.
Because they got it.
It's crazy preparation.
All right.
I'm going back to the book.
Another thing that Marie says in actual combat,
nobody can properly supervise the entire battle.
Since the line is spread out so far,
and some can desert from their bandits and bandits.
There's two meanings of the word bandits.
One is a flag.
Like this is our flag.
But then it's also a group of about 300 troops.
So what he's saying is that people can desert
back to the book unnoticed and give all others
an excuse to retreat.
If they do retreat, there's no way of turning back
or of checking the flight for nobody is able to get them back
since as we said, the whole army is routed.
So this is why we need a little bit of decentralized command,
right?
Because he's saying you're no one can.
You can't keep track of the whole battle.
How many people can you keep track of turning battle?
Four?
Maybe five?
These guys are going in a battle with thousands.
You can't keep track of them all.
So one of the things that they do, and this is sort of a,
it's sort of a cover and move scenario.
So the way they set up, they set up two lines.
Said to just one line, they set up two lines.
Back to the book.
And there should be two lines.
One of them, a support.
The troops in the front line will fight more eagerly,
knowing that their rear is protected by the second line,
and that their flanks by the flank guards.
So even if you just know you're covered,
man, you're going to fight harder, because you don't have to worry about what else is going on.
That's why we do cover move.
Second, a man in the first line is not as likely to run away
when he knows there are many other soldiers
our station to his rear.
That is in his second, in the second line,
and we'll see anyone discerting his posts.
See, there's a little, it's like logical.
They made, I'm not going to run, because the guys are right behind me.
They're going to know.
In combat, this can be extremely important.
Supposing that the first line retreats or is pushed back,
then the second line is there, a support,
and as a place of refuge.
So you got to back each other up, cover move.
Next one.
A small army should not prepare
to face an organized and more numerous foe in open battle,
except in case of necessity.
Boom.
Don't go and fight against a bigger, better opponent with more people.
Don't fight against them.
Back to the book, if the necessity does arise,
do not mass all your troops in front.
And even if the enemy number is superior, direct your operations
against his rear or his flank.
For his dangerous and uncertain and all conditions,
and against any people to engage purely frontal combat.
Even if the enemy station is a smaller number of troops up front.
So this is, we talk about this over and over again.
Don't attack the front.
Don't attack the hardened position.
Next, squads should be made up of old and young men in proportion.
Otherwise, the older men, if formed by themselves, maybe weak.
And the younger inexperienced men may turn out disorganized.
So this is, this is obviously important,
but sometimes people have a tendency to want to build a super team.
Right?
I'm going to take all these guys, all the best guys.
You want to make your team as even as possible.
This is a classic example.
Just take all the old senior guys who have all the experience.
But they might not be in the best physical condition.
I mean, you take a single putton.
You take a 43 year old seal.
Now there's some studs out there.
Don't get me wrong.
But you compare them to a kid that's 24.
That's on fire.
You tell that kid to go climb a ladder, jump up a building.
He's going to do it.
They're beasts.
So you want to have both those elements in your team.
And it's the same thing in a bigger organization or a business organization.
Spread out the knowledge and spread out the enthusiasm.
Is that, does that have to do with like,
Are you saying like a senior guy?
He might have a bunch of knowledge.
Versus, you know, a younger guy.
He'll have a lot of athleticism and physical capability or the less world.
It could be enthusiasm, right?
It could be like, hey, I'm just going to grind it.
Hungry young guy.
I'm going to head home.
You take care of this.
I got it boss.
Let's do this.
Is that also because let's say a young guy who has enthusiasm.
And if you if you mix it up with instead of all enthusiastic people.
You have older guys.
They can teach the knowledge to the guy and they can.
Yes, we're going to make our team stronger.
Okay.
Yeah.
Next one, various tactics and drills.
Constant drill is of the greatest value to the soldier.
Each formation drill should be identified in a special way so that the soldiers who are trained in these maneuvers may recognize the differences and not be puzzled by them.
I can't even tell you how much you do what we call in the seal teams that do in the Marine Corps of the do in the Army.
A immediate action drills.
So it's a contact drill.
When something goes wrong, how you're going to maneuver your troops on the battlefield.
And the more you do that, the better you're going to get at it.
And the better you get at it, the better you're going to perform in combat.
Period in the story.
Is that like a fire drill?
And yeah, it's like a fire drill in a school.
It's like a fire drill.
It's like when you drill to jitter.
When you say, hey, I'm going to practice this escape.
You know, we do that a lot.
The defacle ever makes us do that all the time is okay, let the guy basically put you in a triangle.
Or Dean will make you go in triangle danger or armlock danger, whatever.
So then you're going to drill how you can get out of that.
And that way when you're rolling live, it's an instinct.
And it's the same thing with the situation with your military unit.
As soon as you make that simple call, flank, punch right, move left, whatever the peel left, whatever that call that you're going to make.
Everybody knows what to do. And it provides instant organization and focus and direction to everybody.
Everybody, it's weird.
You know, there's certain calls in the seal team, certain maneuvers that everybody knows.
If you make one of those calls, like everyone knows it every single person in the entire seal community knows exactly.
Same thing in the Marine Corps, that would be there's certain standard operating procedures that you learn in Marine Corps boot camp.
If you say it to a hundred different Marines that have been assembled for the first time ever in their lives, you say one of these commands, they're all going to get on it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's good.
It's awesome.
All right, going back to the book strategy, the points which the general must consider before the day of battle.
A ship cannot cross the sea without a hen'sman.
Nor can one defeat an enemy without strategy in tactics.
With these and the aid of God, it is possible to overcome not only an enemy force of equal strength, but even one greatly superior in numbers.
For it is not true as some inexperienced people believe that wars are decided by courage and number of troops.
But along with God's favor, by tactics and general ship.
And our concern should be with these rather than wasting our time mobilizing large numbers of men.
The leader must take advantage of favorable times and places in fighting against the enemy.
First, he must guard against hostile attacks which can injure our men.
And then he must attempt to launch the same against the enemy.
Above all, he must look for enemy ambushes, sending out frequent and far-ranging patrols and all directions in the area around the battlefield.
He must avoid disordered and uncoordinated pursuits.
Now this is the thing about what we start this whole thing off.
You get the advantage, you get the upper hand and battle, go finish him.
Keep pursuing them until all the enemy is completely destroyed.
But he's saying this right here.
He must avoid disordered and uncoordinated pursuits.
Now, my first deployment to Iraq, there's a couple of times we got ambushed.
We're either vehicles, got ambushed.
And the urge is stop the vehicles.
Let's go get these guys.
And we didn't do that.
On these particular missions, we were going, we had a private, some kind of priority target.
We were going after a bad guy somewhere.
We make it through the ambush.
If all of a sudden I say, okay, stop.
We're going to go get these guys.
We're going to ego thing.
That would basically be an ego thing.
Stop the vehicles.
We're going to go get these guys.
Not a good call.
We made it through the ambush.
We're good.
We have a mission to accomplish.
Let's report this up to Janik.
Man, maybe they can get some aircraft overhead or something like that.
But we're not going to just go into this disorganized pursuit of an enemy.
That actually has the upper hand because we made it through that vessel.
What else do they have prepared for us?
Because I can guarantee they want you to stop.
So you need to think before you just get overly aggressive.
Back to the book, we would not allow the general to take part personally in raids or other reckless attacks.
These should be entrusted to other competent officers.
For if one of the subordinate officers, blunders or fails, the situation may be quickly straightened out.
But if the leader of the whole army fails, this fall can open the way to complete disorder.
The general is wise who before entering into war carefully studies the enemy and can guard against his strong points and take advantage of his weaknesses.
obvious stuff that we talk about every single day.
Back to the book, warfare is like hunting.
Wild animals are taken by scouting, by nets, by lying in weight, by stalking, by circling around, and by other strategies rather than by sheer force.
In waging war, we should proceed in the same way.
Whether the enemy be many or few, to try to simply overpower the enemy in the open, hand the hand and face to face,
even though you might appear to win, is an enterprise which is very risky and can result in serious harm.
Apart from extreme emergency, it is ridiculous to try and gain a victory which is so costly and only brings empty glory.
We're talking about flanking.
We're talking about staking, always making sure the cards are stacked in your favor.
That's what we're talking about here.
Then it's again, it applies in life, it applies in the present jujitsu.
We had a little battle like that today.
You were, I was actually, did you see me smiling?
I was kind of laughing because you were boom, coming to me, coming to me, coming to me, I was,
I was kind of laughing because I was thinking about this podcast and I was thinking, hey,
he's going head to head with me face to face and I'm gonna, I'm gonna fight him.
But that's the way it works.
Yeah, apparently.
All right, back to the book.
On the actual day of the battle, the general should not take on too many tasks.
He might exert himself too much, become worn out and overlook some really essential matters.
Now that to me is number one, you got it, this hatch and number two, you don't want to be in the weeds.
If you're trying to get everything you're done yourself, you're gonna overlook some really essential matters.
Yeah.
He should not look downcast or worried but should ride gently along the lines and encourage all troops.
He should not himself join in the actual fighting.
This is not the role of the general but of the soldier.
After making all the proper arrangements, he should station himself on a suitable spot from which he can observe,
which troops are exerting themselves and which might be slackening.
When needed, he should be ready to send assistance to a unit in trouble by making use of his reserves.
That is the flank and rear guards.
So you gotta stay detached and we're talking the general here.
This is the general.
This is the CEO.
Right? This is the president of a company.
Not getting so far into the weeds that you just don't see what's happening.
And you can't, if you're in the weeds fighting, who's gonna be watching to see that that area is slackening?
Who's gonna be able to direct the rear guard to help out?
Who's gonna send the reinforcements? Answer is nobody.
You're not doing your job.
Here's another one.
Even though the general decides against a pitched battle, he should still make preparations for one.
Gotta be ready.
Some of you asked me actually on Twitter a couple of days ago.
Are you worried about another 9-11 in America?
And I said, I'm not worried.
I'm prepared.
And that's what this is saying.
Even though you don't want to do a pitch battle?
I'm not gonna meet them.
Hey, that's too much of a frontal attack.
I'm not gonna do that. You better be ready for one.
That might be the only choice.
You might get attacked or you gotta always be ready.
Back to the book. He should make it appear that he plans on one.
And convey the impression to all those troops that he will definitely attack the enemy.
This will cause trouble for the enemy when it comes to their knowledge.
So you gotta prepare, be prepared.
No slack.
Another one here.
This is about infantry drill movements.
We're going back to training here.
The Harold commands, silence.
Observe orders.
Do not worry.
Keep your position. Follow the standard.
Do not leave the standard and pursue the enemy.
The troops then advance at a steady pace and in silence.
Without anyone even whispering.
They should become accustomed to these movements.
So that is a spoken command, a nod or some other signal.
They march or halt, reduce or divide the depth of the files.
March steadily in close order for a good distance.
Or various kind of terrain.
Clothes are tight in the ranks and depth.
And with march, engage in mock battle.
Sometimes using staffs and sometimes naked swords.
So this is a really important one.
This reminds me very much of something that we used to do.
So we say, and you're going to do a drill.
And you're not allowed to talk.
You have to be completely silent.
And this is something we absolutely used to drill in this hilltimes.
Where you're not allowed to talk.
And we would actually sometimes take radios away.
So hey, you can.
We turn off everyone.
Turn off your radios.
So you just have to figure this out.
And if you run like that all the time,
eventually everybody learns how to,
it makes everyone more proactive.
Because you know you're not going to hear a command.
You know the boss isn't going to get the radio and say,
you're going to have to be a blank left.
You're not coming because that's so you have to learn to look around.
You have to learn to sense what's going to happen.
And it makes everybody better at what they're doing.
And I'll tell you, you know, I've talked about this before.
We didn't in my task.
You know, I might have to tune.
We didn't talk on the radio.
We didn't.
We would barely talk on the radio.
If I came on the radio and said something,
it was like, everybody was,
oh, the joc would just talk to,
you know, life would say to me,
joc on moving to building 48.
That's a do it.
They'd go, they wouldn't eat.
He'd get Roger and he'd go.
They wouldn't say anything else.
And that was because when we were in training,
we would do these drills.
Or we wouldn't talk.
You're not allowed to talk.
You're allowed to make a head nod.
You're allowed to give somebody a visual signal.
But you're not allowed to come on the radio and you're not allowed to talk.
And that makes you so good.
What it does is it makes your verbal,
your non-verbal communication skills on point.
It was cool when I went to Austria,
you can't even go to school.
So it offers to campus school.
They got to do weird things that they do to you.
And I'll give you a couple examples.
One of them is you're not allowed to look at your food when you're eating.
So you have to stare straight ahead.
And this doesn't sound like a big deal.
Because you think yourself while just looking at my food.
All right.
If you look at your food,
everybody can see in the drone structures.
You'll know what you're looking at your food.
So what you have to do is you have to just look straight ahead.
You're looking straight ahead across the table.
stabbing your fork into the tray of food that you have in front of you. And it's, you know,
it's a little hard to eat. And then over time, you start to be able to utilize your peripheral
vision a little bit more so that you can see it without looking at it. That's one. The other one,
I think I've talked about this. You have to scream everything that you say. Yeah. Right. There's,
so there's all these little things that they make you do. Go ballistic. Go ballistic at all times,
right? I've told that story before. But when it was pretty cool when, when my drone structure
gunnery sergeant Marine Corps, awesome guy, when when we got done, you know, he was explaining
why we did all this stuff. And the one about not looking at your food comes from, it does come from
improving your peripheral vision. Because the way the officer cannon school was originally set up was
for pilots, potential Navy pilots. So guess what, you got to be able to see your instruments
down below you while you're looking around and scanning for enemy aircraft. And so this is what
it does. It allows you to improve. Well, this is the same thing. When, when you build that muscle memory
of hey, I'm not going to talk and I need to look around and I need to be permanently proactive
and make sure that I'm not going to hear anything. So as a junior guy, I'm not going to hear anything.
I have to look around. I have to make a decision. I have to absorb and figure out what's happening.
That is unbelievably good. So anybody that works in an environment, you know, police officers,
obviously military, do these silent drills, do them. It'll make you that much better. It was
one of us. I was relaying the mats at our gym the other day. And Andy was there. Big Andy,
by the way, just got us back by the way. Yeah, we relayed the mats and, you know, he's just a,
we're just working and we didn't say a word to each other for five hours. We're there. We're just
picking up stuff and doing stuff and, you know, he's, you know, an iron worker by trade. And so
he's just guy that, you know, just he sees me doing something. He's the, I see him doing something.
So what is non-verbal communication? Just non-verbal communication. Work on it. It's awesome.
All right. So this next section is really kind of where I was heading with all this. This is
the, these are maksoms, right? General instructions and maksoms. And when we do books that are
maksoms, it makes my job really easy. Because I'm not trying to pull stuff out. It's there. They
are pulled out for you. You know, we didn't know, pull the ins maksoms. There's nothing to pull out.
Read the maksoms. Boom. Suns you are to war. Oh, there's nothing to pull out. Read the maksoms.
And that's what this rolls into right here. Different, and in one of the things I talk about this
in GJ2, I talk about this in anything. So these maksoms you're going to see. These are familiar.
So why would we go film again? Why do we need to hear them again? I'll tell you the reason why we
need to hear them again. Because just like GJ2, you are going to see these things from a slightly
different angle every single time. Just like in combat, you're going to enter a million rooms
as an assaulter on an assault team. You're going to enter a million different rooms. And there's a
basic structure at all. But no two rooms are like no two rooms are exactly like. And the more that
you enter and the more different angles you see, the better you get at handling them. Just like in
GJ2, when you go against different body types, the better you get at your arm locks. When you do
arm lock from the bottom, from the top, from the side, you get better at those arm locks. In the business
world, the more deals that you see and you understand how they unfold, the better you're going to
get with construction industry, the more walls you build, there are a little bit different, little
things come out a little bit different. So the more you see them, the more you hear them from slightly
different angles, the more adapt you are utilizing them. That's why I love when I see these
maximums. So here we go. General instructions for the commander. In carrying out very critical operations,
the general ought not set himself apart as though such labor was beneath him. But he should begin the
work and toil along with his troops as much as possible. Such behavior will lead the soldier to be
more submissive to his officers, even if only out of shame and he will accomplish more. So even though
you know earlier say, hey, general, don't don't get in the weeds. But if there's work to do,
do to work, show them you're doing the work. Next, when certain offenses are common among the
soldiers, moderation is called for. Do not judge and punish all indiscriminately.
Wide spread resentment might draw them all together and discipline would become even worse.
It is wiser to punish just a few of the ring leaders. So you can talk about the harshness of the
Roman Legion. But here you say and look, dial that back a little bit. Dial that back a little bit.
If the offenses are common among the soldiers. So this is also a little bit of
life, Babin. It's not what you preach to. What you tolerate? If you're tolerating it, then you can't
just also drop the hammer because you're going to look inconsistent. If you're not going to
tolerate it, don't tolerate it. But if you do, and it's a common offense, don't all of a sudden fly
off the handle. In consistent. Next, the general's way of life should be plain and simple like
that of his soldiers. He should display a fatherly affection toward them. He should give orders in a mild
manner. And he should always make sure to give advice and to discuss essential matters with them in person.
So we heard this from Pat. Well, here are this from everybody. But Pat and said that exactly
everything. You need to do, you need to live like your soldiers. We hear that all the time.
Take winners and everybody says this. Don't, don't go up in the, don't go up in the ivory tower.
Don't do it. Boss, man. It's like the boss who gets the huge corner. Everyone has cubicles.
But it's a huge, gold plated stuff. Yeah. The way the massage chair in the
arms. Yeah. Yeah. Don't disturb me. Yeah. Yeah. For the 12 minutes. I'm running the 12
minute in the size chair session. His concerns ought to be with their safety, their food,
and their regular pay. Without these, it is impossible to maintain discipline in an army.
By being just imponishing offenders, he should instill fear.
At the very first sign of a disciplinary problem, he should take action to end it and not delay
dealing with it until it grows or becomes more serious. The general's successful when his man
regard him as unshakable and just. He should also see that civilians are left unharmed. Boom.
So when you got the problem, when you see the problem, get the problem solved. Don't wait. It's not
going to go away. It's not going to get, not going to get better on its own. Next, he should be
temperant in his way of life and vigilant. Pretty straightforward. It's a maximum. Next, it is essential
to be cautious and take your time in making plans and once you have come to a decision to carry
it out right away without any hesitation. Timidity, after all, is not caution, but the invention
of wickedness. When you're going to go, go. Go. Once you make your decision, go.
That a default aggressive. That is a default aggressive thing. Yes. I healthy mind is not unduly
related by success or overly depressed when things are not going well. A lot of these speak for
themselves. That's one of them. You got to be mineral erode, maintain. Don't get emotional.
Not late either we won. Not to prove you. No.
Maintain. Next, it is safer and more advantageous to overcome the enemy by planning in general
ship than my shear force. In the one case, results are achieved without loss to oneself,
while the other some price has to be paid. Next, it is very important to spread rumors among
the enemy that you are planning to do one thing and then go do something else. Your plans about
major operations should not be known to many, but just a few, and those very close to you.
Next, alarming rumors or traps of treachery, whether on the part of the enemy or on our own,
not being neglected or action deferred, but steps should be taken to deal with them and put a
shop to stop to them before they become realities. Should you start hearing rumors? Smash them.
That's one thing I see in companies. Companies, this is a problem that businesses have.
I mean, it happens in the multitudes, but businesses have this problem where they
they let rumors grow. They let messaging get formed by the uninformed. That's not what you want
to do. If you're in charge of a business and something bad is going to happen,
explain it to everyone. Don't let the people explain it themselves because the idea that they're
going to come up with is going to be the worst case scenario possible to take a magic.
So proactive communications, so people know what is happening. Don't let them define their own
messaging and their own rumors stop them by giving them the information.
Next, the enemy should be deceived by false reports of our plans,
brought to them by deserters from us.
Yes. So you got people that you think might leave you cool, give them some bad intel.
Courage should be roused in our troops by fabricating report of a victory over the enemy
one by our men someplace else. Now, this is a controversial in my mind. Right. So what they're saying
is, hey, you should make up some stories about how well so-and-so is doing in another area.
You've got to think about what you're doing there. And of course, this day and age,
that's hard to do. We have just open communications. We have texting. We have phones. We have all
this stuff. So it's you'd be a hard press to verify that. But one of the things that I
thought about when I read that where I disagree with this is in mixed martial arts, for instance,
guy loses around, you know, round one. The guy goes out and doesn't do a good job.
Yeah. His losing the round comes back to his corner. What does his corner tone?
You're doing great. Keep it going. That's the wrong worst thing you can do.
Worst thing you can do is like, like, because he'll keep it up. You're going to keep it up.
All right. Yeah. You need to say, look, you're losing. In any time it's close, you've got to
assume that the other guy won. Any round that's even remotely close, you've got to assume
the other guy got that round. Yeah. So don't do this. Don't say great round. Keep it going. No.
There's not a single MMM fighter that I've ever worked with that when you tell him great round
you're winning steps it up. I'd never seen it. I've never heard it. Never seen it. Never heard it.
And if you watch the UFC because they got those corner cams now. Oh, yeah. And I have the
internet thing where I can pick who I'm going to listen to and I can rewatch it. You can hear what
the corners are saying to you. Check it out. Go and look at a fighter who's corner tells them they're
doing a great job and tell me, find me an example of where a guy here is he's doing a great
job and then he steps it up or even harder. It doesn't happen. Everybody goes into cruise mode.
Right. Yeah. And if they're losing, guess what that cruise mode? That gets him destroyed.
So be careful with that one. Marie's got a disagree with you all that one.
Back to the book news about reverses suffered by us should be kept secret and
report stating just the opposite should be circulated about okay. So now we're talking about
controlling the messaging but we're talking about lying and in this day and age doesn't work.
You get it. It doesn't not gonna work for you. You can't say don't worry about it. It was like
remember Baghdad Bob when we went into Baghdad and he there's American tanks M1 Abrams rolling
in crushing and he's like, we've got the Americans on the run. Yeah, we're running down your front door.
So this is not this isn't going to work. Right. What you need to do is if reverses happen,
you need to come out, you need to own them, you need to explain what happened and you need to
get ahead of them. And don't let the room room in the turn into something worse than it is.
You might be able to mitigate it. Don't lie about it. I'm not going to get you anywhere.
Next defeated troops should not be allowed to fall into despair but they should be dealt with
by stirring up hope by various other means. Common sense. Next during combat, one has to overlook
offenses committed by the soldiers but afterward get rid of men guilty of sedition.
Which is like someone that's gonna rebel against you. Again, this is very this is a
questionable. Right. If you during combat, if you start over looking at offenses, guess what you're
going to end up with? Me lie, massacre. No, stop them. Disagreemories. Sorry. When you have a situation
like that happening, you need to stop it. You need to put it into it. Now, that being said,
are you gonna hand on every little thing that happens? No. Right. Maybe you're
gonna give a little bit of slack with something that's pretty meaningless. Right. Maybe give a
little slack at the same time. You can't just, you gotta give you guys some room. That's what I'm
saying. You gotta give you guys some room. You gotta hold the line absolutely. You gotta hold the line
but you can't freak out because you got bigger. You should definitely have bigger things to worry
about. Then this little item. Right. Let's just, hey, get that tightened up. Yeah. Let's move on.
Let's not focus on it. I'm not gonna fire you because you made a mistake. Next,
our own dead should be buried secretly at night but the enemies should be left out there
as a means of making them lose courage. Good psychological warfare. Next, when a delegation
comes from the enemy, inquire about the leaders of the group and on their arrival treat them very
friendly so their own people will come to suspect them. There's a lot of, there's a lot of little
crafty little psychological warfare that they do. That's one of them. I like you know this enemy.
Make the enemy look at him like else. Why is Jockel being so nice to echo right here?
They're acting like they're old friends. They're gonna get suspicious of you. That's what I'm trying to
do. Call some divide. Let's see. Yeah. Axe of cowardice on the part of our soldiers should be kept quiet
and not publicly condemned since this may make them even worse. Again, we're talking about a
communication thing and you're not gonna be able to, you're not gonna be able to keep that stuff
under wraps. People are gonna know. So get ahead of it. Next, a way of arousing discord and suspicion
among the enemy is to refrain from burning or plundering the estates of certain prominent men
on their side and of them alone. So go into the village, burn everyone's house except echoes.
And you're like the prominent guy and they go, I go, what's up? How can we burn your house?
You don't know I'm not friends with them? Oh really? Oh dang it. Yeah, really? We're gonna come back and
we're gonna kill you. Yeah, like the cops, right? They do that. We're, they'll apprehend some guy in the
cartel. I don't know whether they're the drug gang. And then they'll be like okay. Bye. They're like, oh
they wait. You got to rest in nothing happened to you. They want no, it's all good. They're, they're
mm, okay. Exactly. That's exactly it. Next, one way of getting a besieged city to submit
is by sending letters tied to arrows promising freedom and immunity. This can also be done by releasing
prisoners. Cool. Next, great caution must be observed in pursuing the enemy overground suited for
ambushes. A good general will turn back at the right time so you can come back later to attack more
effectively. That's why I'm not stopping my patrol to go back and attack an ambush that we just got
through. So their ground, they have it, they're waiting for us. They have the advantage. They have it.
They've been waiting there. Every art of war, every maximum world tell you, you want to have the
upper hand. You want to pick the battlefield. They picked it. Yeah. Don't get into a scrap of them right
there. Next, do not be deceived by humane acts of the enemy or by their pretending to retreat.
Next, cowardly officers are recognized by their hesitation and power. During combat, they should be
assigned to auxiliary forces. Notice that he is using them, right? Just because someone's a
coward, he's still got work for him. And you go and run the logistics. You know, that's okay.
Because I need bodies. I need people. Mm-hmm. When a populous city is taken, it is important to leave
the gates open so that the inhabitants may escape and not be driven to utter desperation.
The same holds on an enemy's fortified camp is taken. So we want to give people an out.
So that they don't fight to the death. And this is very common with the ego. You don't,
you don't, I don't trap you and prove you wrong in the room. Right? I don't even
make a big meeting. I don't go ego. Here's the four reasons why you're completely wrong and they're indisputable.
No, I give you a little out. I say, echo, you know, I've found these things. I think this might be a
better way to do it. And by the way, you know, this also happens and this other things. So
maybe we could adjust your planet a little bit and do it here. Now, if you have any sense whatsoever,
you see all four of those reasons. You go, yeah, yeah, let's go ahead and do that, Joc.
Yeah, yeah. That's a good call. And I say, no problem. Boss. And we're good.
Yep. But if I come in there and start making you look like a jackass, you're totally wrong.
Your system doesn't work. You're going to dig in on that. No, we got issues. Now you're fighting
to the death. Yeah. I'm going backwards. Next, even in friendly territory, a fortified camp should be
set up. A general should never have to say I did not expect it.
Even in friendly territory, be ready. For a safe retreat, build a fire in one place and go off
quietly to another. The enemy will head to the fire. Deception. Next, letters ought to be sent
out to desergers from our side who have joined the enemy in such a way that the letters will fall
into the enemy's hands. These letters should remind the desergers of the pre-range time for their
treachery so that the enemy will become suspicious of them. They'll have to flee. That's a crafty.
Crafty, little move. I'll echo you deserted us and hey, we'll meet you at this night so you can
give us the information. You told us you were going to give us. They hang you. Trader. Next,
when it comes to dangerous or surprise operations, cowards could be weeded out if all the men who are
sick or whose horses are too weak are ordered to fall out. The cowards will then claim to be
sick and so they can be separated from the others. They can be assigned to guard forces or some
other duty involving little danger. That's a good tactic. Think about that back in the day.
Hey guys, if anyone's not feeling good, fall out over here because you're not 100% so we don't
want to bring you in this operation. The cowards go lay out a little bit sick and feel along to the
weather. Go you go guard the rear. Is that because like in a way they're not 100% either.
Right? Yeah, they're not. And you're giving them an out. Yeah. Because they're not. They might not
say anything but then at the moment of truth. They're not there to back you up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So you can move out. Hey, if you're not feeling good, go over here in this line. Yeah. Okay, cool.
Yeah, you're over there, coward. But I'm still going to utilize you. Yeah. Next, we should not
furnish arms to those who promise to fight on our side because their real intentions are not clear.
This is something America as a nation should get very familiar with. We should not furnish arms to
those who promise to fight on our side because their real intentions are not clear. We give away
arms in a ridiculous manner, ridiculous manner. And we shouldn't because the real intentions
are not clear. Next, after victory, we must not become careless but beyond our guard,
all the more against surprise attacks by the vanquished. Just because you won doesn't mean. And this is,
you know Jeff Higgs, right? Yes. So this is something Higgs taught me. Like years ago,
I'm talking blue belt in GJ2. If you Higgs GJ2, he's a seal. He got out of the seal teams. He got
totally into GJ2. And the original guys I trained with with Master Chief Steve Bailey back in the
day. So anyways, we were rolling one day and we were talking to him and he said,
if you tap somebody, you got to go harder because they're going to go hard. Yeah. So if you, you know,
and I'm telling me someone that you battle with, right? Someone that you battle with and all of a sudden,
you get them better step up your game because they're going to go harder. Same thing right here.
You got to show them. Yeah, you got to watch yourself. Yeah, I'll feel like if you're running the
the mile, you know, like in track, you're running the mile. He pull away out of head, right? And
you're like, oh, I'm, you know, this last lap. Whatever. You know, I'm just going to get it. Yeah,
where you got to step it up because that guy that you've been beating, what, vanquished, whatever.
Yeah, you know, he's coming. He's coming. Next, on voice from the enemy must not be treated
disrespectfully, even when our forces are much stronger. Next, an army no matter how strong,
be seeding a city must never leave its own camp unguarded nor should it think that
fortifications are sufficient to assure its safety. But you keep sending out patrols.
Don't ever let your guard down. Saying this over and over again. Next, suspected defectors should
be told the opposite of what we intend to do so that we may use them to deceive the enemy
and treachery must be guarded against even during periods of truce or temporary peace.
Next, by no means should we believe reports that come from deserters or defectors alone.
But their reports should be checked against statements made by prisoners taken in raids
and in this way the truth may be discerned. So you've got to check with all the different sources
and this is something that the intelligence community does extremely well, which is they
take all these different little chunks of information and they assemble it together into a picture.
You know, we've seen those pictures where it's just like a bunch of dots when you look at it
up close. But then we step back at something real. Yeah. That's why these intelligence,
these intelligence communities do they take all those little dots. It seems like a meaningless dot
just a meaningless little dot. But they're going to put it on that broad picture and it's
going to fill in one little piece of information that they need. You put all that stuff together and
all something they know who you are. They know where to attack. Yeah, and that kind of makes sense
there where it's like some deserter or somebody who basically doesn't have credibility.
Right. So that way like, hey, he's not necessarily lying, but he could be so he
becomes a real circumstance. You know, and then like how you're saying you put all the dots together
and he has for some reason this dot. It's not fitting. It's not pinning a picture, but then you know,
okay, he's wish you washing anyway. So all right, I see he's lying right now. You know what I mean?
Line about that piece, but maybe didn't lie about another piece. Yeah, you know what I mean?
I'm exempt. Next, in no way, should a sworn agreement made with the enemy be broken?
Yeah. So if you, you need to hold hold hold your word, even with the enemy hold your word.
Next, after God, we should place our hopes of safety in our weapons, not in our fortifications alone.
Don't just count on the defense. Next order should be given to the soldiers that they should
be ready to march out on a holiday in the rain day or night. For this reason, they should not be
told the time or day beforehand so they may always be prepared. This is this reminding me of
when my last epilomatorac and you're winding down and I told my guys, I said, hey, I'm not going
to tell you guys when we're going to stop operations. We're just going to stop because I didn't
want anybody going out thinking this is the last operation. Right. Just put plain safe. Yeah.
I think guys when we're done, well, you know, but just keep going. Yeah.
Guys, we're like, Roger that. Yeah. Keep going. And then one day we got doing. Yeah.
But keep the mentality of, you know, don't think about this is going to be the last operation.
You don't want to cruise into the first place and it's not the finish line. Right.
Next, risks should be taken without necessity or real hope of gain. Sorry, risks should not be
taken without necessity or real hope of gain to do so is the same as fishing with gold as bait.
Next, inhabitants of the area who seek refuge should not be received indiscriminately.
Often enough, they've been sent by the enemy to seatfully to plot against their hosts.
This is something we ran into a lot in the money where people are acting normal and they
knew our rules of engagement. And so they knew like, well, if they didn't have a gun, they
were going to shoot them. And so they would do things that probe and they'd see how close they
could get and see where we were. So just because these people are coming with their hands up,
doesn't mean they're in a sense. You know, they might not be guilty. They might not be in a
city there. Next, we should also be on our guard against deserves who approach a besieged city,
often enough they are sent by the enemy to set fire so that while the defenders are busy putting
them out, the enemy may attack them. Just be cautious. Troops defeated an open battle should not
be pampered or even if it seems like a good idea take refuge in a fortified camp or some other
strong place. But while their fear is still fresh, they should attack again. By not indulging them,
may they may with greater assurance renew the fighting. So don't take care. You can't just say,
oh, we beat you. So come on in the camp and relax. No, not happening. Next, if the general thinks
he's ready to meet the enemy in battle, he should get set to carry on the fighting in the
enemy's country instead of his own. Men waging war in a foreign land become more aggressive.
They will also feel that the war in which they are engaged is not only being fought in
behalf of their country, but also their own personal safety. This is not necessarily the case
if the war is fought in their own land in which the existence of fortresses eliminates the risks
to men since in case of flight they may easily take refuge in them. This is a little bit
different than what we might deal with today. Because today, when you deploy to some country
and fight, that's not your homeland. So you're saying, and I, you know what? This is this,
you know, I don't have to defend this. And can you imagine if America got invaded how hard
the Americans would fight? You know, one could ever pull it off. It would be too hard. Because
once the Americans say, oh, you're going to take my country, would not anything. But any not
happen. Yeah, not happening. Yeah, go try and take someone's parking space in America. Here,
they're ready to kill you. I know. So you think you're going to take land from us? Not
happening. Not going to happen. So there's a little bit different. But the mentality of being aggressive
and of in what I think what the mentality is talking about is knowing that you can retreat, knowing
that you can go back to your fortress. So that means, you know, in this day and age or sorry,
in that era, they knew they couldn't, they didn't have any, all they could do is fight. They had to win.
Right. You know what this is great comparison is in the in the old school navy. You had no choice.
You have no choice on a naval vessel. You have no choice but to fight. You have no choice because
if your ship gets on your dead in the on the ground, you can run away. You can hide. You can retreat.
You can fall back. Where do you fall back to on a ship that's being attacked? You don't. You go
on the ocean and you die. So that's one of the kind of core things that's old school navy. You
cannot retreat. You cannot give up. You can't. You can't surrender. You can't surrender. It's
if you surrender, you die. If you don't fight with everything you got, you die. So you have no choice
but to fight until you're dead. That's kind of the the mentality of the old school navy.
No way to run to. You can't can't retreat. Can't fall back. You're there.
So that little section was called the general instructions for the commander.
And now we get into the straight up. Maximum.
First one. The man who spends more sleepless nights with his army and who works harder in
drilling his troops runs the fewest risks in fighting the foe. Self evident.
Mine's made you leave. In colder than hell. Who remember they're like patrolling to combat and he's
got the guys doing drills? Yeah, after it. Next, never lead soldiers into combat before they
before having made sufficient trial of their courage. So why we train hard.
Next, it is well to hurt the enemy by deceit, by raids or by hunger and never be enticed into a
pitch battle, which is demonstration more of luck than of bravery. So he's saying a pitch battle is
like a blizzard. Luck. Luck. Yeah. What's a pitch pitch battle? Face to face. Yeah.
Next, only those battle plans are successful, which the enemy does not suspect before we put them into action.
Next, deception is often helpful in warfare. And enemy soldier who desserts us, apart from some plot,
is of the greatest advantage. For the enemy is hurt by deserves more than if the same man
were killed in action. Next, he who does not carefully compare his own forces with those the enemy
will come to a disastrous end. Here's a good one for you. Courage and discipline are able to
accomplish more than a large number of warriors. Often enough, the lay of the land has been helpful
in making the weaker force come out on top. Terrain. Those you in the military,
terrain learn how to read terrain, learn how to use terrain. Learn how to figure out the
high ground. Learn out where the dead spaces are. Learn where the ravines are that put you in a
better, better, finerning position. Next, nature produces but a few brave men,
whereas care and training make efficient soldiers. Soldiers who are kept working improve
encourage. I'm gonna say that again, soldiers who are kept working improve encourage
while too much leisure makes them weak and lazy. Next, things which are unexpected or sudden
frighten the enemy, but they pay little attention to things to which they are accustomed.
You used to that. After gaining a victory, a general who pursues the enemy with a scattered
and disorganized army gives away his victory to his foe. Here's a simple one. The cause of war must be
just. Next, it does not help to assemble the whole army in counsel where to keep sending from
men when they are off duty. These things only cause discord in the army. I put that one in there
because this is a place to business a lot. We're all of us on your call in that person all the
weekend. Nice stuff meeting. I need to talk to everyone on their off day. Burn them out. Be careful
that. Next, the soldiers must always be doing something even if no enemy is bothering us. A
bitual, idleness spells trouble for an army. So those two are kind of contradictory. They don't
me call them people all the time, but keep busy. We got to figure out how we separate, even
the business world, how do you separate work from life? And as the boss, you got to make that distinction.
Yeah. Yeah, it kind of seems like that makes sense. I mean, consider like exercise or something.
Like you got to have the recovery period. Yes. But I can't be just cruising, skipping days all the time.
You know? So it's like that. What do you call it in the in the deal? Dye caught him. There's a
dichotomy. Yes. Nicely done. Thank you. Next, for what should be done seek the advice of many.
For what you will actually do take counsel with only a few trustworthy people. Then off by yourself,
alone decide on the best and most helpful plan to follow and stick to it. Hey, everyone
tell me what's going on. Give me your ideas. Yeah, okay. Great. A little bit smaller group. Okay,
guys. There's the input we got. What do you think? And then guess what? The commander's got to make
a decision. Yeah. You can weigh all those different inputs, but the commander's got to make a decision.
Yeah. And when you make the decision, you got to own it. Now one thing that's interesting,
and I don't mean to go on too much of a tangent here. But I'll make a decision
and execute with aggression. But my mind is not closed. And if I go, say, we're going to do
acts and we start executing acts and acts is not looking good. I'll say stop executing acts. I was wrong.
Here's what we're going to do. So just because you're being decisive doesn't mean that you're being
stupid. Just because you're being decisive doesn't mean you're not you're losing your plasticity.
Yeah. Yeah. We don't lose our plasticity even when we make a hard decision. Even when I say,
this is what we're going to do. My mind is still open. And again, a lot of times I'll try and break
as a leader. I will try and break big decisions into smaller incremental decisions that allow me
to change course during the execution. And you know, for, and I've told the, I've said this
something like this before, but if we got a bad guy target and we think the bad guy's going to be
there, the first thing we're going to tell the guys to start planning. So they're going to start planning.
Then I might put them okay guys, we're going to go and put you guys in the staging area.
Well, they execute. We're executing, but we are not executing. Right. All you're doing is going to
a staging area. Yeah. Then I might even put a reconnaissance element out to watch the target.
We're executing, but we're not executing. I could still say, okay, stop. Everyone come back home.
We don't think he's there. We don't think it's a good mission. We think it's a trap. Whatever.
So I gave, I committed. I made a decision. We're going to hit this target. But I made that decision
incrementally. I didn't just say we're going to hit it. And now no matter what happens. So a lot of
times as a leader, I look at the big decision. Okay. Yeah, it's a big decision. And I'm going to be
decisive on it. But I'm going to make incremental progress towards that decision that way I can be
adaptable as I move towards that execution. Yeah. The very important lesson to learn. Very important
lesson to learn. I never just jump off the cliff. It's like you're creating a point of no return.
Right. Oh, I'm a third of something. Yeah, there's a, there's a last point of covering
concealment is an actual term that we lose. Use last point of cover. So that means there's a target.
And once you cross this line, now you actually do have to go. Yeah. Now you, you're out in the open.
They can see you. Yeah, do it. So that's the point. But that point should come so far down the road.
That you can execute the target. You can execute the target. You can execute the target. But you still
have an actually executed until you've gone past that last point of covering concealment. Once
you're there, once you go past the last point of covering concealment, you're done. You have to go.
But that should be very late in the game. And it's the same thing in the business world. Oh, we want
to open up into this new market. Okay. Let's do a reconnaissance that market. You're executing.
But you might do reconnaissance. The market is a, you know what, it's not what we thought it was going
to be. Stop. Okay. Let's get a building. Listen, are you going to lease? We're not going to buy.
You're going there by a building because we don't want to own that thing yet. We don't know the terrain
well enough. We're going to lease a building. Guess what we're doing. We do an eight year lease. No,
no, no, no. We're doing a two year lease. We're just going to slowly execute incrementally. Because
we might get in there and say, it's not looking good. So think about how you can break these major
decisions down into smaller incremental decisions that give you the adaptability.
Next. If an enemy spy is captured while observing our forces, then it may well, it may be
well to release him unharmed if all our forces are strong and in good shape. The enemy will absolutely
disbead this made by such reports. On the other hand, if our forces are weak, the spy should be treated
roughly forced to divulge enemy secrets and finally either be put to death or send off elsewhere
under guard. Obviously, we don't put our prisoners to death anymore. But you know what's interesting
about this in the business world and I work with all kinds of different companies. And the reason
I keep talking about this spy stuff and the captured is because every industry, every industry out there,
they are constantly competing for people. And whether it's this technology companies, whether it's
financial companies, they're always trying to recruit each other and trying to get this guy
to leave and they're trying to pull this person over every different, a lot of times I work with
companies, they don't realize that all of the companies are like this. There's only the, you know,
they say, well, you know, the thing is we get, people are trying to recruit our people all the time.
Yes, it happens in every industry, every industry has got people trying to recruit their people.
And that's why I'm talking about this stuff because if you think about it, if you know someone's
going to go to another company, let's give them some bad intelligence before they leave.
You know, let's say that we're thinking, we're, we're not going to go into that market. Let
them know that. You are going to know about it. We'll speak. Yeah, full speed. Yeah. So that's what I
am saying this. Again, you know, you get to this point where, you know, as a, as a upstanding human being,
let's be straight up with people. But I'm assuming now that someone has maybe done you wrong.
They're trying to take clients. They're trying to take business away from your business.
He's now getting into a little bit of a, we're in a little some hostilities are brewing. Yeah.
So some psychological warfare game within the game. There's a game within the game. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. There's a game within the game. And again, you have to maintain your integrity as a, as a,
as a human. And then that's that is definitely for me, the, the absolute primary thing,
right, to maintain your integrity. They're not maintaining your integrity with you. We may be
they're going to get some misinformation on the way out the door. Sorry. That's the way it works. Yeah.
And like, you know, they're not, I'll, I'll kind of draw back on that a little bit and I'll tell you why.
What one of the best things about when someone leaves a company, one of the best things you can do is
treat them good as they leave. Yeah. Really? Because that, because when they show up at that new company
that made all these promises to them, that are not true. Yeah. And, and they're looking back and going,
man, you know, Jockel was just honest with me. And he told me he wanted me to stay and he told me that,
you know, we're going to grow and he told me to never not put you right now, but he was following the
future. He believes me. Yeah. So I'm going to actually retract my statement about using these kind of,
you know, putting your integrity at risk. It's better to maintain your integrity. And it might not be
better instantly, but in the long run, you're going to be better off even with like a spy situation. So,
I mean, kind of consider, if you were to draw the analogy of a spy, like, let's say a tamp came in your
company and he's really a spy because he's a temp somewhere else. I don't know whatever. And you find out
or you get, you know, like information, whatever that that leads you to believe about that guy's a spy.
Right. And then you start essentially lying to him about projects or I don't know whatever goals.
Yeah, I probably just get rid of him. Yeah. I'd probably just treat him nice kind. I'd be like, hey,
listen, I don't think you're here for the best reasons. Yeah. And in fact, I think you came from this
organization. And I'm going to let you go. If you ever want to come back here in earnest,
you know what? I think you got a lot of potential. And I think I think, hold on, I think that the fact that
they did this to you, it shows that they don't really respect you. Yeah. And but if you want to come to
a place where you will be respected and where we work with integrity, this is the place for you.
Let me know if that ever happens. But for now, because the way this is shaken out,
I can't, I can't have you here. Because you know what I'm trying to do? I'm trying to protect my
team. I'm trying to protect what we're doing here. And you know what we're doing? We're doing something
positive. And you're bringing right now, it shows you the weakness of the people that you've been
working with on the other side. It shows you that they're weak. They're trying to do these things.
It's not going to affect us, by the way. We are going to win. Why are we going to win? Because
we are staying on the path. See now, you approach it like that. You're going to win all day long.
So let's just retrap. You know, that's why people don't understand man, integrity is so important.
And the minute you start giving up, even under these adverse conditions, when you give up your integrity
in the Longland, you're going to hurt yourself. And I kind of got drawn into it, right? Even
myself, I'm like, oh yeah, spies and all this. No, be straight up. Yeah. Painting your
attack. Don't put them to death. No, I'm not allowed to do that. Yeah, dang, that's actually
that's way more advanced than kind of what I was going to ask you. So what if like you expose them?
You know, if you expose the company or the person like, oh, hey, everyone, I don't know,
you know, not we have, you know, yeah, well, I think it'd be, I would do it in an appropriate way,
you know, I wouldn't be trying to set them up and make them look a bit say, hey, listen,
guys, we found out that Bill, he's actually, he's actually still getting paid by X company over there.
And Bill, we, we're going to have to let you go. Appreciate you coming over. But, you know, we here are a
team. We stick together. You're not part of the team, obviously. So we can't have here.
If you ever decide that the week team you came from is not for you and you want to get on board with the
winning team, let me know. Yeah, that's advanced to kind of let them know that like, hey, I still like you
and everything kind of thing. You know, the opposite of burning a bridge. Yeah, like you're
in a building. And there is nothing better. A lot of times companies that we work with,
somebody will leave and it will be under those weird circumstances, right? They'll get on a good offer.
Or, you know, again, all companies do this. They say, I'll give you a signing bonus.
Yeah, you'll be signing bonus to come over. Okay. And a signing bonus that looks,
that's a way to get somebody over and they say, don't want to give you this and we'll give you a corner
officer. We'll give you this. We'll give you a helpers and you know, that will give you this title,
right? Oh, yeah, they're warming with all those things. But all those are recruiters.
They're not telling the truth about stuff. Sometimes. The worst, the best recruiters tell everything
straight up. Right? The best recruiters are like, oh, you're, you're doing this.
Yeah, they were really good at that. Your company, you're at Echo. They're really good with that.
You're right. Here's where their weaknesses are. Here's where we beat them. You're decision.
It's, it's honest. And it's such your expectations, right? So they want to show up. You, you're not
thinking, what Jockel, you said that this was the best at at X. Now I didn't say that.
Is it where the best at Y? The X were working on. Right? That's what you want to do. It's just,
I want to talk about it's integrity. That's what we're talking about. And you got to maintain it.
That's thing to do. Yeah.
Easy to win in those scenarios. Is that one of those take the high road or the high
high ground or the high ground is going to take you. Absolutely. All right.
Back to the book. If the soldier's show signs of cowardice, various skills
should be used to restore their courage. Next, take your time in planning. But when you have made
decision be fast and putting it into action. In war, opportunity is fleeting and cannot be put off at all.
Opportunity is fleeting. I was not just talking about war. That's talking about business.
That's talking about life. Your opportunities in life are fleeting. What are you doing with them?
What do you do with the opportunities you have in front of you right now? Are you capitalizing
on them? Are you going after them? Because they're fleeting. They're not going to be there.
They might be there tomorrow. They might be. In a week, where are they? In a month, where are they?
They're gone. Opportunities are fleeting. Let's get after them.
Next, let the army see that you are not unduly-related over successes nor utterly cast down by failures.
We already covered that. Next, it is not the general whose words are frightening.
But the one who gets things done, who is feared by the enemy.
That's a big one. There be the person that makes things happen. Be the person that makes things happen.
That's, you know, in the military. My guys, I was at, you know, a seawelplatoon or a
sealed task unit or when I was running training. I had guys, my boys, my people,
and they made things happen. If I said something to them, it was going to happen. It was going to happen.
There was no, I didn't barely, I didn't give it any direction. That's a hey, we need this. They took,
got it. Done. Done. That's the kind of person you want to be. Not the person that comes back.
You know, a week later, we tried to make some progress here. But I really ran into a brick wall with
so and so. My guys didn't hit brick walls. If they hit them, they hit them with sled jammers and
busted through them. So Jade would. Jade Charles. Echo Charles is brother. Yeah. So he'd be like,
this happened more than once. This is why I'm saying he would do this. But maybe twice.
I don't know. Anyway, he'd say, hey, I know you're going to the store go buy me some wine while you're there. And he's like,
hey, it's this kind of whatever kind. So I'm like, all right, I'll do that for you. You know,
favor kind, no problem. I go in the wine section. I'll whatever. And he's like, hey, it's this. And
there's, you know, there's wine. There's white rain, red rain, burdo, cabernay, all the other one. Yeah.
And then there's the brand. So basically, it's a wall. The whole thing is all wind. It's not the kind
of where there's sugar here oil. This all wind. Different kind. And he's like, I want this kind.
I'm looking at this thing. Brow is here for tomatoes. That's it. I don't want to spend one hour
looking for a way. So you kind of come to like this decision. You got to make, you know, I could easily
just grab my tomatoes, go and be like, bro, you know what you sent me on a treasure hunt for
your wine. I could say that. And it'd be justifiable, really. So now I have a bottle? No, yeah, no.
As you say, hold the line. He asked for wine. I said I would get wine. I'm going to get wine.
And I'm not going to say anything about it. So what I did, found it. Give it to him. And I know where it is,
no. legit. Right? Because justifiably, I could have said, bro, hey, I'll do it next time. Or
show them next time where they're showing me where it is. You know, but, bro, I didn't have that kind of
time. Whatever. You know, you got the mission done. Yeah, do. What do the guys say? They say,
don't talk about it. Be about it. Yeah, don't talk about it. All right, next. Plan what you have to do
at night and carry out your decision during the day. One cannot plan and act at the same time.
For you're a better night, make your list of what got to get done. Next, the general who is
overly harsh with his subordinates and the one who is too indulgent are both unfit for command.
Fear leads to great hatred and giving in too much results in being despised. It is best to take
the middle course. Means balance. Got a balance. So this is the dichotomy of leadership.
Don't be over-hars, don't want to be too indulgent. Like the fact that he says, giving too much
results in being despised. And it's interesting. I've heard that. Like in the seal teams.
Wait, that expression? No, I was going to see that. I see that. Yeah. Where you get a guy. Of course,
you get a guy, you get a platoon leader. That's really over the bearing and no one likes him.
And it's not a good unit. But you get the guy that just gives everything. He's not like
either. They're not respected. That's the problem. He might be everyone's body. It doesn't make anything happen.
It doesn't have a good unit. Yeah, no, for sure. Next, after agreeing upon a treaty or
true, so the enemy that commander should make sure that his camp is guarded more strongly and
more closely. I bet you Maurice, the way he relates these things, they must have gotten
reattacked on multiple occasions because he is paranoid. If the enemy chooses to break the agreement,
they will only gain a reputation for faithfulness and disfavor of God. While we shall remain
in safety and be true to our word, the general should not have to say, I did not expect it.
Next, for small forces, we should select a place with a narrow front who's with the corresponds
to the size of our army, the superior numbers of the enemy are useless in such a place since
there is no room for them. This is classic battle for mobily. Pick a place that's really narrow.
So all those Persians can attack you at the same time. Is a good idea to maneuver so that the
son, wind and dust are behind our men and in the face of the enemy. By so obscuring his vision
and making his breathing difficult, we should quickly be victorious. Think about those environmentals.
Next, we should line up our troops for battle before the enemy gets ready. This puts us in a position
to do what we wish and barely allows the enemy time to arm. So behead, be early, get up early,
be first, be first. If we are all set for the charge, then we can attack the enemy in safety
with our men full of confidence in the enemy very worried. Next, if the enemy is put to flight,
our soldiers must be restrained from plundering. Otherwise, they are scattered doing while they are
scattered doing this, the enemy might reform and attack them. Once again, I like Maurice's paranoia.
Next, the general is that fault if most of the army is destroyed in a single battle.
We wrote a book called Extreme Ownership. That's what it's about. Only.
Next, an army which shouts out its war cries, good and loud, can strike terror into the enemy.
Is that like the rugby, the New Zealand, the all blacks? They are doing that?
Yeah, the Hawke is awesome. Have you ever seen there's a, they do the Hawke and like memorial
services? Yeah. That is very moving. That doesn't get much more moving than that. Yeah, they get up.
Even the football teams in Hawaii do that too. Some of them don't do that before the game.
It's kind of, I think in Hawaii they're used to it, so it might not have the effect. But what if
you never seen it before, you're not expecting it, they do that. You're like, Bro, these guys are kind of like
derrated or not, you know? Yeah. Yeah. That's cool. Next, our commander, all to adapt his strategies
to the disposition of the enemy general. If the ladder is inclined to rash nish, he might be enticed to
premature and reckless action. If he is on the timid side, he may be struck down
by continual surprise raid. So you're making adapters. I was like, oh, I know you got a bad
temper. Oh, I'm going to remember to bring it out. Or you're, you're passive. Cool. I'm going to get
aggressive on you. The general should be impartial in dealing with his own men with allied
and with allied forces. He should be a just judge for both when he gives presence to the allies.
He should make a regular increase in the grittuties for his own soldiers. So he's talking about
they would adopt these other armies and he's seen treat them fairly. Treat them just like, you know
where you see this is a lot of is when when we get acquisitions in the business world. So one
company takes over another company and a good leader is going to treat people fairly. A bad leader
is going to be taken care of the guys and he's always doing with him. So you got to be careful that.
In wartime, the general should do more than his share of the work and take less than his share of
the gain. This will enhance his reputation and secure for him the good will of all. Do more of
then your share of work and take less of the share of the gain. Aware of the uncertainties of
war, the general ought to be ready even after victory to listen to the proposals of the enemy
for peace on advantageous terms. So gotta keep an open mind. The best general is not the man of
noble family but the man who can take pride in his own deeds. Next, the general must correctly
manage not only matters of immediate concern but most also take thought for the future.
Common sense. But how often do we see people not doing that? Not thinking about the future.
Only mean concern with what's happening right now. Next, the best leader is one who does not
willingly engage in a hazardous and highly uncertain battle and refrains from emulating those who
carry out operations recklessly and are admired for their brilliant success. But one who,
while keeping the enemy on the move, remains secure and always in circumstances of his own choosing,
we dictate the situation. We dictate the situation. A greedy general can be the ruin of his own
people and an objective contempt to the enemy. A general who loves luxury can destroy the whole army.
Next, the commander is the one who can instill courage at the right time and can hold back
the headlong flight of frightened soldiers. Next, a general who desires peace must be prepared for war.
For the barbarians become very nervous when they face an adversary all set to fight.
That is why my foreign policy is one word strength because the barbarians get nervous
when they know you're ready to fight. Mistakes made in ordinary affairs
can generally be remedied in a short while. But air is made in war caused lasting harm.
This is why combat is like life but amplified and intensified.
Next, those whose performance is consistently poor should not be entrusted even with just ordinary
responsibilities. Next, the general, the sharp general takes into account not only probable dangers,
but also those which may be totally unexpected. Next, make peace a time of training for war
and battle an exhibition of bravery. So during peace, prepare.
Next, the general should not go to sleep before reflecting on what he should have done
that he might have neglected and on what he has to do the next day.
Get ready for the next day the night before period. Can you do that? Yes, you can.
That's good to not go just bed without reflecting on it. I think, but it seems like that's something
that most people probably wouldn't do. Just in life, I mean, you know. Yeah, no, absolutely.
This is about life. You don't have to put that caveat on there. This is about life.
Dang, that's a good idea. I mean, shoot, go to bed. It's time to go to bed.
Whatever, yeah, I got worked on, but you know, you typically don't run. It doesn't take long to say,
you know what? This is what I got done today. This is what I got done today. And you know what?
This is something to think about. When it's when you're prepping to get stuff done, when you
know you got a long day, think about how good it feels when you accomplish a lot in one day.
That's how you want to go to bed at night. Going, yeah, I nailed this. I nailed this. I nailed this.
Oh, I messed up this, but I'm gonna get on it tomorrow and fix it. Yeah, that's the part right.
Doesn't take long. Let you go. Echo is gonna do it. Why won't you do it while you're editing
videos for this podcast? I do. I like it. I like it. Next, it is well for the
general to exercise self control at all times, but especially during war. Next, the general should not
be hasty in placing confidence in people who promise to do something. If he does, almost everyone will
think he's lightheaded. So you got a, you can't just be, hey, you know you're gonna take care of
it. Trust you. Gotta, gotta, gotta, check a little bit. Next, long and careful deliberation promises
great safety in war, whereas hasty and impetuous generals usually commit serious blunders.
Next, the general should set an example of how things ought to be done for his subordinates,
training himself in the highest ideals doing what is right and refraining from those things
his soldiers should refrain from. Set the example. The general should make sure of the good
disposition of his troops by an oath. Next, if the general knows the inclinations and tendencies
of each officer and soldier, he will know better what duties should be assigned to each one. No,
your people. Next, the general who wants to keep his plans concealed from the enemy should never
take the rank and file his own troops into his confidence. So just be careful. Be careful who you're
telling him. Does that contradict, you know, having a, well, this transparent transparency in your
leadership, no, it doesn't. You, you, you don't have to divulge every single idea that you have
to your entire chain of command. Especially because you're gonna change those ideas, things are
gonna adapt, things are gonna get different. So this isn't contradictory to say, you know what,
I'm not gonna tell every single person, especially if you've got a security situation. Right?
I mean, we're talking about national security. Yeah, there's things that are need to know only.
That's a legitimate thing. Yeah. If echo doesn't need to know this and that can happen in the business
world too. Because you do have people leaving. You do have spies. You do have all these people
coming and going from businesses. So this is legit. This isn't, this isn't a lack of transparency.
This is prudent. Yeah. Information control. Yeah, I go home. I tell my wife and she's
cruising with her neighbor, you know. And they're like, hey, that was interesting. So the
life goes on tells the husband. I'm putting you know who's putting together all those little dots.
Yeah. Painting a picture. Next, when both sides are equally well armed, the better
tactician will win. Next, the general who possesses some skill and public speaking is able
as in the past to rouse the weak hearted to battle and restore courage to a defeated army.
Work on those skills. Just like we learned in the in the guide book, the 1950 guide book
for military officers. Work on your speaking skills. How do you do it practice?
It is good to occupy any hills in the area before the enemy has a chance to do so.
Boom. Take the high ground. This is awesome.
Reinterrated again and again and again take the high ground. Next, as in the past,
misleading moves taken by the general can be very advantageous. For example, if he makes it look as
though he's going to set up camp, the enemy might be lowered and doing the same thing.
Then while they're scattered about getting things ready, he may secretly drop his troops in the
tack where he may quietly withdraw his army if the terrain is unfavorable. Simple. Next,
in his movements, the general should act like a good wrestler. He should faint in one direction
to try and deceive his adversary and then make good use of the opportunities he finds.
And in this way, he will overpower the enemy.
Same thing with your jutsu by the way. Ready could it flop? I guess he could have said
penetration. Sure. Next, in battles and in every action against the enemy, the wise general,
even the most courageous will keep in mind the possibility of failure and defeat.
And we'll plan for them as actually occurring. You're confident that's great. Plan
what's going to happen if it fails? What's the worst case scenario? What if things go wrong? What are you
going to do? The spirit of the commander is naturally communicated to the troops. And there's an
ancient saying that is better to have an army of deer commanded by a lion than an army of lions
commanded by a deer. Yeah, that's a pretty common one. Next,
if you imitate the enemy and do what he is doing for his own benefit, you only harm yourself.
Conversely, if you do something which is to your advantage and trying to imitate you,
the enemy will injure himself. A lot of times you do see that in the business world where
the competitor is something. So we'll do it too. Yeah. I'm not saying that never good, but if you're
doing that means you're behind. So trying step up, come with some original plans, make something happen.
Next, a wise commander will not engage the enemy in a pitched battle unless truly exceptional
opportunity or advantage to present advantage presents itself. We're here in that over and over again.
Next, whatever terrain the general chooses, he should make his troops familiar with it.
They will then be able to avoid rough spots and because of their knowledge of the area,
we'll fight the enemy with confidence. Know your terrain. Next, when the general leads his men out
to battle, he should present a cheerful and fierce appearance avoiding any gloomy look.
Soldiers usually estimate their prospects by the appearance of the general. So if you're in a
leadership position, that's what they're saying. If you're in a leadership position, the people are
watching you. And if you look like Sullen and Down Trotten, guess what they're going to think
we're about to get warped. Next, after a victory the general should not allow the men to break ranks
right away. For his happened often enough that the enemy on noticing that our men have
let down their guard and rejoicing and have broken ranks, have regained their courage,
come back to fight and turn to our victory in defeat. Don't let your guard down, boom.
I think we're here in that loud and clear marise. Next, when the enemies around it is well
to leave a gap in our lines to give them an opportunity to flee, in case they judge that flight
is better than remaining and taking their chances in battle. Next, an army is judged by the spirit
of its general. Next, it is better to avoid a tricky opponent than one who never lets up.
I'm saying that again, it's better to avoid a tricky opponent than one who never lets up. The latter
makes no secret of what he's doing. Whereas it is difficult to find what the other is up to.
So, conversely, which one do you want to be? Of course we want to have determination and we never
want to make sure they know that we're never going to let up, but you really want to be the one
that keeps him guessing. Yeah. Harder to deal with. Next, the commander should be severe and thorough
and investigating charges against his men, but merciful in punishing them. This will gain him
in their goodwill. In their goodwill. Next, the generals should be calm and emergencies,
prudent and counsel, courteous to his associates. He will be most successful in battle if he
charges against the enemy, not like a wild beast, but in a calculated manner.
Next, the general should be ignorant of none of the situations likely to occur in war.
Who can attempt to accomplish what he does not understand?
Now, that again, who can attempt to accomplish what he does not understand?
Who is able to furnish assistance in situation whose dangers he does not understand?
So, you gotta get the knowledge. Next, the general must make plans to defeat the enemy,
not only by arms, but also through their food and drink,
making the water unfit to drink and poisoning the grain. And that's, again, we're not just attacking
on one front. We're attacking on all the fronts. We're not just attacking with swords and bows
and arrows and lances. We're poisoning the water. We're poisoning the grain. We're attacking at
every possible angle. And that wraps it up. That's Marisa's strategic con and, by the way,
I forgot to mention this. This is somebody, somebody on Twitter said,
hey, check out this book. I got it opened up and said, yes, ancient war, bring it,
maximums, bring it, awesome book. And, you know, I wanted to close this out kind of with something
Roman related. And, of course, I thought about Julius. When you think of Rome, you think of
Julius Caesar, you think of Julius Caesar, you think about that guy named Shakespeare, who wrote
a play called Julius Caesar. And, obviously, not going to do the whole thing right now, but there's a
part of it. And, you know, we're talking about leadership, right? And, really, in talking about
Marisa and Caesar, actual rulers of an empire. That's where they were rulers of an empire.
It's possible to think that maybe they were better than us, right? Like, they were superior human beings.
And, it's also possible to think that they were better than us, not by what they did.
And, how old they led? It's possible to say, oh, you know, Marisa came up with this stuff.
Nah, that's just, that's not why he was the ruler. This is luck to fate.
But, in the play, Julius Caesar by Shakespeare, Cassius reminds us as he speaks to Brutus that
that isn't so. And not so, not luck. He explains to Caesar, in these great lines, he explains
him that Caesar stands above the world like a giant. So, Caesar's a giant, like a Colossus,
is the word he uses. While we, us down here, we little men, we just wonder about, wonder about
under his massive legs under his giant presence. We're just, we're just moving angiously towards a,
toward that, towards a dishonorable death. But, this is what I like about it. Then, Cassius explains
that it isn't fate that has put Caesar into that powerful position. But, that men,
men control their own destinies. And, that men are masters of their fate. And, that the fault
in men, the thing that holds us back from greatness, it doesn't lie in chance. It doesn't
lie in the way that the stars are aligned. No. The fault lies within us. Not in the stars. It is
our fault that we become slaves instead of kings. And, this is, this is how Shakespeare put it.
Why? Man, he, Doth, bestried the narrow world like a Colossus. And, we, petty men, walk under his huge legs
and people about to find ourselves dishonorable graves. Men, at some time, are masters of their
fate. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. That we are underlings.
So, Cassius, there, is making an early case for ownership, for extreme ownership, which is
obviously something that I believe in. Then, that is, that you can't blame fate. You can't blame
the stars. The fault lies within us. And, you got to own it. You got to own that fault. You
got to fix it. You got to dictate your own future. Don't let fate dictate your future.
You got to make that decision to be better, to be a king like Caesar, to be a general,
to be a leader. Then, most, most important to be a free human being. So, we're talking
about underlings. There's slaves. Don't be a slave. Be a slave to any other man and don't be
a slave to weakness and don't be a slave to sloth and don't be a slave to your ego. Don't be a slave
be free, free your mind. And, the thing is, you can't free your mind until you realize,
the Cassius says, the fault is in ourselves. And, the pathway to overcoming our faults is not
complaining or blaming or making excuses or attacking others. No. The pathway to freedom actually
comes from attacking ourselves, attacking ourselves with discipline and with hard work and with
physical training and mental training and then reading and studying and learning. Then that, that is how
we overcome those faults. That's how we leave behind the underlings, the slaves.
That's how we get away from the darkness of subjugation. And that is how we become free.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight looks like we're pretty long to slide into Q&A right now.
So echo. Yes, if we are not going to do Q&A, I have a question. If people wanted to support
this podcast, do you know of any ways that they could do that? I do as a matter of fact, let me go
and tell you about it. People have been asking me, and not to kind of, you know,
how like some people they'll say that, they'll be like, hey, people, a lot of people been asking
me about this, but it's like two people, you know, and they say a lot of people. So not that case,
there's a lot of people, probably like 20 people, which is a lot of people asking the same question,
but I think people asking the same question. So anyway, they're like, hey, what supplements or
are these on at camp, on am talking about on it? So the supplements, the krill oil, is that
the good stuff, is the true tech, is that the good stuff? And I was like, cool, yeah, yeah, they're
they're the good stuff for whatever, but so you kind of think, and I was thinking about this one,
I was actually working out, and I was like, hey, to myself. It's not like the supplements you take
aren't going to like get you in jocquishate, you know? It's going to be like all the other stuff,
like Jimmy and hard work. Yeah, it's exactly, you know, the workout, diet, rest, like all this stuff.
And if you have like, you know, whatever goal, the supplements are going to like, they're going to
help you get there faster, they're going to create less roadblocks, like injuries all this stuff,
keep you, put you and or keep you in better health, like all this stuff, right? But the way I kind
I don't know, I could have been taking it wrong though, that it sounded like they were like, oh yeah,
I'm looking for like the answer kind of thing, not all of them, but that's kind of, I don't know,
maybe it was just collectively, that's what it felt like. Yeah. So I think that's important to point out.
So supplements are not the answer. Yeah. Your squat rack is the answer. Yeah.
Yeah. Your pull-up bar is the answer. Yeah. And you got to do that stuff like over and over and over.
Like, you know how, okay, I'm not going to mention this name, but one of my friends would be like,
yeah, you're like your a genetic guy, whatever, you know, those be like, yeah, a genetic, your genetics are
like good. And I'm not saying my genetics are not good. I'm not going to say they are or are not,
I'm not saying that. But I got into like working out when I was 14 years old.
I didn't stop by the way, new about like diet and all this other stuff. So when you hit, let's say,
let's say you had not started working out when you're 14. Let's say you were like, oh, you know,
I know what a weight room is kind of thing. I'm out of shape. I'm 35 or whatever, however old.
And to say, I want to get in good shape, it's like that's a completely different situation, you know?
Yeah. And you could possibly try and blame the fault on your genetics, but it's not the fault of
your genetics. Exactly. The fault of the star is baby. No fault of yours. Yeah. So you can work out now.
You could say, man, it was an environment. Okay. Cool. It doesn't matter anymore. Right. What matters
is how you know, fix? Yeah, what are we going to do exactly right. So which brings us to the same kind of
this profound, maybe fundamental concept of it's not like it's not these external things.
You're not going to escape the fact that if you wanted to get in shape, you got to go get in shape.
And that entails these fundamental things. It's not going to be the supplements. It's not going to be
your genetics, the supplements, genetics, all this stuff. That's part of the game. For sure.
But that's not what's going to get you there. So that being said, I'm going to recommend some
supplements. But in the hopes of us, everybody, being on a good workout program. Yes.
These will help you if you are on a good workout program. By the way, these will definitely help you.
Yeah. And a lot of people speaking of, again, a lot of people I don't mean to. I mean more than
two. I mean, I think about all the people on Twitter that I said, I've been taking
acrylic oil. Yes. My knees feel better now. Oh, my shoulders feel better. That's a fact.
acrylic, acrylic, acrylic works. Yeah. And personally, however many people told me that it worked for them,
that has no bearing on my understanding that it works because it works for me. And I don't take
like protein, massive gainer to get big, I don't do that. You can, I guess. And that's cool.
And I'm not going to recommend necessarily that. But like, acrylic oil, for example,
like that will keep you in the game way more in my opinion than it will. Like a creatine situation.
I think that. I agree with you. This is, and you're, by the way, for those of you don't know,
echo does have a doctorate in neuroscience. Yes. Well, you, you, you, you notice. I won't make any
scientific claims. Yes. Or maybe I will. I don't know. Okay. Well, the best claim you can make is
that you use it and you feel it. That's, yeah. You know, that is, bro science, I guess. Yes.
What's anecdotal. Yeah. anecdotal. But what if it works for me, too? Yeah. There you go.
There you go. Then we're starting to paint that picture with the dots. Remember how you're talking about?
Yes. Yeah. Same thing. And, and I do want to add that this, that does mean something when I say
it works for me because I was for a long time time anti-supplements. We're,
like, yeah, you're just taking that to make yourself feel better about working out or whatever.
And they're selling it to you because they're telling you the same thing. For long time,
they take any supplements and still had gains and all, you know, who's doing fine?
Gaines. Big time, I can't. So I was like, yeah, supplements. You know, when people talk about
supplements, they grow, you're totally wasting your time because you can just eat good and eating
enough of the right thing and then do everything that you're on top of is that true. You can't do that.
Yeah. But here's the thing. I don't know if you can do that with krill oil unless you're eating
a bunch of krill in a smoothie or something. Even that, I don't know. You know, do can you? Shrimp tech.
How can you replace that with diet? I don't know if you can, man. So I'm slowly, and this is what it was.
It was like the correct kind of supplements. Yeah. That's what it is. So krill oil, take care of your joints.
Other ones that you take your course, you know, strong and bone. Yeah. You're a course, man.
Don't. Shrimp tech, if you want a little efficient oxygen usage, you know, keep you in that
those hard workouts longer, better, more comfortable. Get you in the, like in the car, the RPMs,
you know what goes, it's in the black and goes into. We know. Yeah. I know.
I know. Because I told you to tell us it's in the time. Tell us it's in the time. Tell us what the slogan is,
you can't pull ahead if you're in the red. So the shrimp tech keeps you in the like the yellow
main bit orange. Anyway. The other day, shrimp tech, I took, we, we showed up to train and it was the kind of
the, the pipeting training partners, you know, the guys that the big dog, yeah, the big dogs.
And before I went, before I went, I'd work out as normal. Yeah. Yeah. But I took,
not only did I take shrimp tech sport, I also took the pre workout drink. Yeah. What is it called?
Earth groan. Yeah. Earth groan. Yeah. Earth groan. It's pre workout. Yeah. And I took both and we did
10 rounds. You know, 10 rounds. That's 10, five minutes. Where were we? We were five minutes
rounds because I was training MMA fighters. So, but it's 10. One hour. Yeah. And it's only over an hour
of training. I was going to, you showed it. Wait. No, I was adding. Okay. For that one. Yeah. But I walked
out of there going. True tech. True tech. Yeah. Well, we, 10 rounds is hard core. Yeah. When you're going
with no, because, but you can do around with three hard guys. And then you go again, someone that's not
that great. You can, yeah, it's neatly relaxed and recover. But yeah, it's so back to different
things. But when you are going against every guy is trying to rip your head off and they have
the capability of you in it. 10 rounds and a lot of rounds. Yeah. So the shrimp tech. And the feeling
there is because I've been in the same boat. Uh, I'm not going to necessarily say 10 rounds, but
in the same boat. Where? There's a lot of rounds for a curve. Actually, I've done six, 10s,
six, 10 minutes. And it might be hard. Yeah. Been some, but some might consider. Yeah. With
heavy hitters. Heavy hitters. Yeah. That's tiring. Yes. So basically what the shrimp tech will do is
put in the layman's turn. What it'll do is, you know, the feeling, let's say you go six tenths.
Well, actually, can you do scientific terms for us here? No, I'm going to layman. Thank you.
After the sixth tenth or the one hour of rolling, you're going to be like, physically, you know,
like, dang, I'm done. That felt good. Whatever. But we're done. I'm good. I'm going to go home on a
rest. He might stuff him good. Yeah. And even today, when I showed up today to roll, we had some,
we didn't do anything that extreme, but when I showed up, I already worked out hard,
strength and metcon. Then I went surfing, you know, getting after it. Sure.
For any, didn't eat anything, but just rolled in. Now I had some, I had to take that back. I had
some bacon, like three pieces of bacon. In between working out and surfing, so I was like,
we had some bacon. Sure. Then I had some shrimp tech. I showed him to hand it on the way to the
gym. I drank the, the pre-workout stuff. Yeah. And I felt ready to rock and roll. Yeah.
Well, I'm actually, instead of me saying I was ready to rock and roll, why don't you answer that?
I was. Jocco appeared and demonstrated that he was ready to rock and roll as it were.
I actually wasn't ready to actually did rock and roll. Yes. Which is, which is, yeah. You were,
you didn't talk about it. You beat about it. Yeah. I beat about it. Afterwards, after the hard rolls,
with the shrimp tech, you'll feel like, sure. Yeah. That was good. That was hard. I could go another one.
Like, I could keep going. Just tell you feel, not necessarily that you want to keep going,
but you could, you feel like you could. Yeah. I mean, I wanted to go get a wheel to podcast.
Yeah. Yeah. So that's a different. But, you know, I get it. Anyway, yeah,
shrimp tech, that's a good on shrimp tech sport. Still haven't didn't done shrimp tech immune.
I think that's the next one. Yeah. Warrior bars and okay. So we'll talk about that pre-workout one.
And I took it one time for rolling and I was like, okay, cool, but I'd been taking it all week
for lifting working out at cons. Very, very good. Very effective. Okay. And here's the,
the, the, the, the, the, really the results. The proof straight up proof. He's right. So,
you know how like, okay, do you do, do you do any kind of like pressing or are you all any kind of
lifting, you've been pull ups or something? You know how some days you're like, oh, I feel like flat. I can still do
but I feel flat. Yeah. Then some days up, I said, where you like, oh my god, a little pop in my thing.
Not necessarily stronger or doing more. Maybe you are, but I just got a little pop in it.
In my, my movement or whatever. That's how you feel. And it was noticeable. And I was like, okay,
and here's the thing with mine, I did do more. More weight than I normally do. More reps than I normally do.
But I was like, okay, those are the first sales. I go, okay. You know, like, easily could have been
other circumstances. Totally could. Yeah, because sometimes you just feel the pop feel the pot. You got more rest.
You know, you guess your day was, you know, easier out on whatever. All these other circumstances. You know,
everyone else. So boom. Next time I lift do it again. Same pop, same feeling. It's like, okay.
And that's different. Typically, you don't get two pops in a week. Anyway, next time I go, I go in again. I'm like,
all right, we're going to keep this going. Who's the telltale? So here's what happened. So I warm up.
My routine is I warm up. I work out. That's it. I warm up and I have my son and he needs
something without going to for a minute. I warm up ready to go. Ready to go first set. He needs
something for half an hour. Oh my, okay. You know, I go. So do I have to warm up again? And my, you know,
am I going to? Did you utilize the pop to care for your son? No. No, what I'm saying is kind of physiologically
mentally, I'm out of, I went out of the game for a little bit out of the workout. So I come back.
I got a re-engagementally and I'm fit to be honest, like mental. I should kind of flat back in the day
that might have possible nowhere to go tomorrow. Back in the day. Anyway, so I'm like, all right,
I'm a little bit flat whatever. I choose I'm working out today. That's it. You know, whatever.
Maybe I had a warm up again. I don't know. Maybe he's going to get mentally harder.
Oh, first sure. Yeah, that's no question about that. You know, is that? So whatever I get under there,
I choose the weight that I had already showed you know, chose before when I was like, I'm, I'm in it.
Yeah. Boom, boom, boom, more reps than I expected. It was a winning day. That's good.
Three in a row. Anyway, that was it. So I didn't like some strong. Well, I'm in. It's to me. That's
for like, okay, even if you use a scientific proof for not scientific proof. Of course,
not scientific proof. But that's like to me, that says, okay, this is something you're going to be
taken now. You know what I mean? It's not like I tried it. No different. I'll try to get
sort of what the media did. Sort of what the 10 rounds give me. Yeah, you're on. You're in.
Okay. Yeah. You know what I did today? Turgut again. Turgut again. Turgut again.
There you go. You know, and actually we had some no shows today at the gym. Yeah. I don't know.
I wasn't one of those. So yeah, you were there. I was there. But we had some other heavy hitters there.
But we didn't get the full spectrum of heavy hitters that were there to crush. So I didn't even need to
take it. Yeah. It didn't get put to the test. No. Okay. It's good. So now I'm kind of in a way. I'm
a supplement guy. Okay. So if people wanted to get these supplements, how could they get them?
All right. On it.com. You want 10% off? You go to on dot com slash jockel. You want to 10% off.
Support yourself. Support the podcast if you're in the mood to and you know, go handle your business.
Another cool way Amazon click through. So Sarah, thanks for the duct tape. I want to say that all
the duct I have like a pilot duct tape too, which is not a good tier. By the way,
no, because I needed it. She sent it. My phone's yeah. Well, there's smiley faces on it.
Okay. It can't be on the podcast. But this is smiley face. You know, now the new iPhones,
you type a word and it suggests emoji. So you type in good guess what's right there?
It's my face. Should be your face. But now the smiley face currently. Slack HQ has that for some reason.
Yeah. My face or someone I don't really understand it fully, but somebody sent me a little
picture of an emoji that said good and it's my. Yeah. Yeah. So it's kind of the same concept.
But generally speaking, it's a smiley face smiley face went on the duct tape layers.
She's the same. And like the ones it's good duct. Good duct tape. But emoji style. You know,
Sarah's she's clever like that. Anyway, the point is Amazon if you're shot never duct tape or anything else.
Not necessarily duct tape, but like books, you know, you want to get this one or whatever.
And we list that on the website too. But if you didn't already, you know,
click through. Go to the website.jockelpodcast.com. Click through the Amazon banner
over there on the side and then do your shopping and support by casselle. You said
small click like it takes like two seconds. Right. Click on it. Go do your shopping. Two seconds
supports, you know, like a big amount. Well, because it's a lot more than just you. Yeah. Clicking. Like just
one. It's not just one person clicking. Yeah. Which would be helpful. But when a bunch of people
click through, then it's very helpful. Yeah. Create a bigger reaction. Yeah. So small action, huge reaction.
And I made the reference to when you throw a small piece of sodium metal in a, you know, in water
and the big chemical reaction. Something like, wait, did I remember that crack? I looked up on
YouTube. Look up. So put sodium in water. Look that up. So you get guys, they'll, they'll have a big
fish tank with water. They'll throw the sodium and the fish tank will blow up. So people posted them
on Twitter. Did you see that one where somebody had a, somebody's holding a small brick of sodium.
Oh, yeah. Through the lake. Did you see that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Everywhere. Yeah. Yeah. I'll leave it.
Yeah. So see I get that exactly. Right. So when you, next time you shop Amazon, you think,
I'm shopping Amazon. I'm going to buy some batteries. That little click through the
Jockel podcast.com. Boom. That's that sodium that we're looking at on those videos. It's crazy.
Anyway, that's a good way to support in a big way. And then yeah. So YouTube, that's a good one.
Right. Subscribe to the YouTube channel. Subscribe to the iTunes one as well. But that one seems kind
of obvious. Most people already subscribed. But if you haven't, well, we went over an entire book today
of obvious things that people don't always know myself. So we need to reiterate just so we all
make sure we're on board. Yeah. Reinforce with our friends. Yeah. Yes. That you should always be prepared.
Yeah. Oh, we would have prepared. Yeah. Really. That one was all about prepared. Yes. Subscribe.
iTunes. Subscribe. Be a subscriber to the podcast. And that's no commitment. You just unsubscribe. If you
you don't like what Jockel's talking about, you just unsubscribe. But if you like and you do want to
support. I don't like it. You're talking about that too. You know that too.
It's a rumor. There's a part. YouTube. Luckily you don't dog a lot. Yeah. I sure. You don't like
that. Sometimes you just suck it up. Fast forward. It's a nice old line. Yeah. And most people
like now you're pretty screwed. Yeah. Yeah. You've never long long. You're a little bit
older. Just listening to echo. They're like fast forwarding through me. Yeah. You press the
skips. Okay. Oh, I can. Echoes about to say something. So don't.
Nope. The one guy. My mom or something. Anyway. YouTube. We do more videos now. We put out the little
the shareable. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My husband. My brother the other days. I like hey, this new guy.
You know, he listens to a lot of like talks and stuff. Like, new guys talking about this. I'm like,
oh, that's good. He's like, hey, he's talking about he goes into these little ideas that he's talking.
I was like, oh, I was like, hey, send that to me. And I usually want to say I'll be like, cool.
Maybe I'll look into it kind of thing. And I'm like, does this one song that I said send it to me?
Send it to me. Send it to me. It's an hour 37 minutes. You don't want? I'm like, bro, I would. Yeah.
And I scolded him. I said, but you can't do that to me. We got him to like, so now you're going to have everyone
that listen, scolding you. Yeah, but not anymore. You know why? Because we have juggle me. Now it's three minutes.
You want to learn about how to learn necessarily, but yeah, learn. If you want advice, good advice,
juggle advice. On what, how you should approach college after the military after high school,
whatever. Go ahead and listen to that three, four minutes. Boom. You're good to go. You're ready.
Go to college. Great. A function. If you say, hey, listen to this podcast, it's in there somewhere. Two hours long.
No. Any lot of people don't have the attention span for that. And but it's, but you do other ones besides just college.
Exactly. Right. We do multiple. Yes. Well, Nick. No. I do suggestion. Like a 20 pack of Nick nuggets.
More than that. Be really. And you know, you can share and consume, you know, boom, boom,
I do suggestions as well. Request, if you will. People on Twitter, they're like, hey,
chocolate podcast. What does it take to actually make that come true? It's not 100% turnover.
See, people don't like that. I know. And reliable. It's quite a response and say, yes or no.
Kind of. Yeah. I don't say yes or no. Like, yes, I'm going to do that one. I'm, I just noted, you know,
so yeah, I mean, they're all good. I know. But when they see them boom, there it is. Yeah. You should actually tell them.
But I know it might be hard. Maybe because you're going to lose track of them all. Yeah. Maybe. Or maybe you should just do them all.
Oh, yeah. Maybe there it is. I think that's that. But yes. So, you know, there's no downside, right? There's no downside
to doing them all. To do, no, to doing a blood. There's, is there a downside to saying, making a bunch of them?
There's not unless you make ones that are lame, right? Unless you pick out a lame one when I'm talking
about something stupid or making mistakes, yeah, or giving bad advice to the world. Yeah. Don't do those.
Those are the good downside for sure. The good ones. Yeah. No downside. Okay. There you go.
And when you subscribe, boom, you have like, because I subscribe. Yeah. And when you upload something,
you don't tell me. Right. I just get a lame. Hell that says,
jocopotka's just uploaded a video and I was go, wow. Yes. Echo has been hard at work for
four minutes to make a video. Anyway, it's good to, um, I'm taking heavy stitch for me. I'm sorry.
All day, but all good though. I think I'll for brain some solid. I think,
uh, yeah. So, subscribe to subscribe if you're in the mood, subscribe to YouTube if you like that stuff.
We just go. Um, and then of course,
jocco has a store. It's called jocco store. Your L is jocco store.
.com. Anyway, shirts, you like these slogans. The slogan is that a lame word for like discipline equals freedom.
I don't know. I think it's, I think it's, I think it's actually, what it could be used, but I don't
know that it necessarily. I'm not waving it around and jumping up and down. Yeah.
Although if you ask me a question on Twitter, like I asked me the other day,
how can I wake up early, how can I work out every day and how can I eat the right foods? Yeah.
Yeah. I'm just going to tell you discipline. Right. Right. There's a little bit so
easy. Yeah. Well, the point there is that there's some shirts. They're cool. I think they're cool,
but if you think they're cool, you want to support podcasts. You get assured a hoodie, like some good stuff.
There. I think adding in some more stuff. Um, and look at them. If you, if you like some stuff,
get some of that support podcast. Support yourself too. Get a new shirt. It's kind of cool when
you order something. You know, the day it comes in, you know, even this regular Amazon stuff.
But it's a little microphone adapter for my other stuff. It comes in. What's your other stuff?
I do stuff. This is kind of messed up. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's good. It's so good.
Anyway, so yeah, well, you know, shirts come in. You can wear. I'm going to be shirt.
Discipline equals freedom. Jockel's head says good backwards. When you look in the mirror,
it's telling you good, like, you know, that whole thing. Yeah. That's a good one. Whatever. The coffee mugs
are working with this guy, Chris. He's really helping you narrow down a better travel travel mug.
Yeah, the travel mug. It's going to be good. Real good. That's good. Yeah. Oh, the stuff on there.
Look at it. I'm not saying buy it. I'm saying go there. If you like something, get something.
And if you want to respond, yeah, it's a good way to support the podcast. And actually,
so maybe someone will ask you about what that means. And you say, oh, it's, I listen to a podcast.
Yep, which happens a lot. According to my experience and the experience of others that email me,
they meet. They spread the word. People will be like, what does that mean? Who's that guy
under shirt? If you're like, and here's this, here's a funny one that you wouldn't really think of.
So let's say I'm wearing the Jockel good shirt. How's your face on it, right?
I'm at my friends house, barbecue, whatever. And we're like, hey, let's all take a picture
and you have the thing and it's, you know, the square that finds the faces. It's finding your face.
I'm sure. And they're like, oh wait, they're like, oh, it's finding your face on your shirt.
Yeah, go. And then later on they're like, who's that on your shirt?
Boom, spread the word. You know, it's like one of those kinds of things.
I like the idea spreading the word because what's cool is, you know, you know, I get a lot of messages
people saying, hey, thanks. Yeah. I lost 40 pounds. Hey, thanks. I'm back in school.
Hey, thanks. I got a promotion. I'm not doing any of that. You guys are doing it. But
you're somehow influenced on the fact that you're getting your, you're getting your
discipline together, you're working hard and you're getting your life is getting better. So when you
spread the word, you're helping somebody else too. Which is cool. Yep.
100%. Oh, but yeah, those are the ways, you know, other ways there's psychological warfare
in here. This is never the only one. So no more. Oh wait, no, every day. Those are two
different ones, right? No more and every day. Yes, I believe so. Okay, I listen to the every day one
because, you know, how like when you're like, hey, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm, I'm new. I turned
over and you leave whatever the expression is. I knew years resolution and you go hard
typically, typically you go hard. You're like, I'm, carbs have gone. You know, you don't cut a
little bit. They're gone, right? Yeah. After like a little while, you really like four, five days.
You're going to like, oh, maybe not gone, you know? So you listen to every day, right? Every day,
really, it not only does it like make you like fired up to keep going, but it puts it in perspective,
you know? Yeah. It's like you thought, this is a cliche, but Michael Jordan or something like this.
Someone who's doing because someone who's successful, you know, you didn't go back to old him five
days later, you know? No. And that sounds real obvious. And yeah, we heard that people, but that's
what, why that's effective. So psychological or free, you don't know, it is an album, spoken word album.
It's available on iTunes of like little for lack of a better term.
It's a verbal, psychological warfare. Yeah. Like verbal, you can listen to it. It tells you
to get after it. Yeah. Under certain circumstances. Yes, there's actually specifically made
to deal with common everyday weaknesses that we all miss. So many phases of those weaknesses.
You can just press play track seven track four. Oh, every that's asked for an alarm clock to wake up.
Just get this album, set it as your alarm tone. I'm waking you up in the morning. Yeah. Tell
you wife tell your significant others. Otherwise they're going to think there's a strange
man. The room talking them and they're going to freak out. They'll out their firearm. Bad things
could happen. Psychological warfare. Yeah. Psychological. I should think I should put on like Amazon
music too. Yeah. Good. Yeah. But yeah, currently iTunes sort psychological warfare is on Google
play to your hyperlink. I don't know. I don't know. The podcast is no, I know the podcast is. Yeah,
the distribution channels. You make my hand. Yeah, I got to expand for sure. Expand, getting the game.
Yeah. But that's a good one. And incidentally supports the podcast. That's true. Very true.
Which is appreciated. All right. So also you can get chocolate, that supports the podcast and it
supports you and it's in stock. We got a bunch of it and it will do things to you.
If you want to crush the souls of your enemies, drink some chocolate, it'll be
little bit easier to do that. It'll taste better. So that's that we had to get after it mugs.
They're out of stock. I sent one to Joe Rogan to a picture of it. They're run. Yeah. So I got more
of being ordered. They're being made. Logistical nightmare. All that. Sorry. Keep checking. They'll be
back in stock. They say, get after it. Wall gear there on Amazon. You can also get a book called
Extreme Ownership written by me and my brother, Dave Babin. It's about leadership and it's about combat.
So if you like the podcast, you're dig that book. You know, I also have another book that's going to
be coming out in May. It's not available for pre-order yet, but it will be. And I will announce
it when it comes out. I think everyone's going to be pretty psyched on it because I am. And also
the Extreme Ownership Master May 4th and 5th at the Mariamarke in New York City. This is
the gathering. It's about leadership. It's about strategy. It's about tactics. It's about getting
after Google it. You'll find it. We'll see you there. And until we see you there, if you want to see
us, well, we can actually be found all up in the interwebs. We are on Twitter. We are on Instagram
and you're going to also could find us on Dash, Facebook, Boha, cruising with you, my friend.
She echo is at echo Charles and I am at Jocquill. Thanks for the support. And you know, we talk a
little bit about these Amazon clicks and the store purchases and the getting the tea and the
mugs and the teachers and all that stuff. Just so you know, that support is actually literally what
fuels the podcast. That's what the podcast runs off of. So thanks for all that. Truly, we appreciate it.
Thanks the military, the military person L vet are out there smashing our enemies
and thanks to law enforcement and firefighters for protecting us here at home.
And the rest of you that are out there listening, that are working through your lives, that are building
and creating and grinding and finding faults. Finding faults not in others, but in yourselves.
And thank you for crushing those faults by getting out there with discipline and getting after it.
So, until next time, this is echo and jocco out.